In this concept, we will learn about the basics of a Smart Contract.
What is a Smart Contract?
It is a piece of code that lives on the blockchain network.
It can be instructed to do many things like send money,
receive money and other assets.
Ethereum gives us the option to run code or programs out of the participating nodes.
This code is called the Smart Contract.
It lives on the network.
The most common language that is currently being
used to write Smart Contracts is solidity.
There are few other languages too,
but this is the main one.
Smart contracts have an account address just like a wallet address.
They can also hold Ether just like wallets can.
They also have their own storage where variables and other data is stored.
Let me explain a sample Smart Contract by a simple use case.
Let's say a buyer wants to buy some budget from a seller.
Since there is no centralized authority involved in blockchain,
the buyer will first send the required amount of Ethers to a Smart Contract.
The contract will hold these funds like an escrow.
Now, the seller will ship the item to the buyer.
As soon as the buyer receives the item,
the buyer will instruct the contract that the item has been received.
This is when the contract would release the funds to the seller.
Now, you see how the need of a third party is
eliminated by using a contract to perform the same actions.
The most common language that is used like I
mentioned to write the contracts is solidity.
Serpent is another one.
You can also use some other lisp-like languages.